#EE_3.07 Geodata Management Systems WS2022/23 - <br> Final Assignment Group D

4. FREE EXERCISE

While doing the exercise number 02 - Digitization, we became very much interested to work on QGIS using the option georeferencing, WMS, OSM, hillshade model (very interesting), terrain model, polygon annotation, and resource sharing. We decided to use these options to explore new location but related to ancient history, germany and world war II. One of our group member's sister stays in Norway and she told us the story about her visit to Fjell Fortress - one of the historical places.

4.1. Historical Background

During the Second World War, German occupation forces built the Fjell fortress. Construction began in late summer 1942, and the main gun was fired for the first time in June or July 1943. As a part of Norway's coastal defence, the fort played an important role. In addition to intercepting foreign aircraft raids against Bergen, the main gun was also used. The fortress has areas over and under the ground, with a network of tunnels two miles long on the surface and in the mountains. Over 1500 Russian prisoners of war, together with Norwegians, Danes, and Belgians, worked inhumane hours on the main project. The stronghold was regarded as one of the greatest independent fortresses in all of Europe and the strongest and biggest in Northern Europe.

The stronghold was built to withstand an attack by the Allied Forces on the island of Sotra as well as to guard the northern and southern sea passages leading to Bergen. The German battle cruiser Gneisenau, which was damaged, provided the turret's 283 mm triple guns, which were housed in an elevated location in the fortress's center. The massive turret was demolished in 1968, but the majority of its armor plates are still visible today. The fortress area is today the property of the Norwegian Armed Forces, while Sotra og Øygarden Forsvarsforening (Sotra and Øygarden Defence Association) are responsible for its preservation and maintenance.

4.2. Digital Terrain Model and Retreiving the data

A particular kind of raster data called a "digital terrain model" has a single band that lists the elevation for each raster element. A DTM is adjusted so that it displays the elevation of the ground rather than the top of a building or tree canopy. This makes it a particularly intriguing tool for archeological reasons as well, as old structures are frequently hidden by foliage on standard images, making them difficult to see.

From the source: ( https://hoydedata.no/LaserInnsyn2/ ), the DTM for the specific location has been collected.

The data is provided in the EPSG:25833 coordinate reference system. Unzip the data and import it to QGIS as a raster layer and select EPSG:25833 as CRS for the project.

4.3. Hillshade Map
4.3.1 Using the QGIS tool, the DTM layer is selected in the rastar and converted to the hillshade model using the hillshade option in the layer styling. The detailed picture can be seen in the attached assignment numebr folder 04 picture named: dtm_osm 01.JPG . To check the exact location, we used the option OSM standard. As we have worked with the hillshade option in the task 02, we already had the knowledge to test different color options and scales for the new model. The detailed output for the hillsahde model can be seen in the picture named: dtm_osm_hillshade 02.JPG.

4.3.2 Using the WMS option, we used Bing Map for the entire project and selected the Aerial Map to check the exact location, to see the overlap of the DTM as well as the hillshade.

4.4 Terrain measurement
Using the Terrain profile option in the QGIS, we measured the height of the Fjell Festning which we got approximately 173.974m which made us very happy because the real height shown on the website is 175m.
Link:
https://peakbook.org/en/peakbook-element/91660/en/Kanont%C3%A5rnet+%28Fjell+Festning%29.html ) 

The detailed picture is shown in the picture named: 
4.4 terrain measurement.png

4.5 Orthophoto
An orthophoto is a picture of the Earth's surface that has been orthorectified. Aerial photos from drones, aircraft, or satellites are required to construct an orthophoto. Because the distances and directions depicted are rectified, and because an orthophoto has its own coordinate reference system attached to it, it may be used to map a region more precisely.

The official website for map data and other location information in Norway, Geonorge, offers a free online mapping service called WMS that enables access to orthophotos taken in 2016 from planes flying along a dense grid of flight lines, near to the Earth's surface. The data obtained in EPSG:4326 - WGS 84 format and has a very high resolution.

4.6 Creating a layer with labels
Along with the data taken from the museum website (https://fjellfestning.museumvest.no/english/), the digital terrain model and orthophoto make great map with great synchronization.
The detailed can be seen in the two screenshot taken named as follows:
Fjell fortress_layer labeling_01
Fjell fortress_layer labeling_02

4.7 Polygon
We also wanted to make the fortress to symbolize as the main attraction, so we used the option polygon. 
It is shown in the picture: Fjell fortress_layer labeling_03

4.8 Conclusion:
We are very happy to learn about all the above mentioned options in the QGIS and we are amused how the technology works and makes our life more feasible yet being very creative! Before this project, we had no idea how the google map and the  different layers of the map works. We would like to thank you for this opportunity to give us nice experience of learnings which will help us in oour future possible career.

4.9 Error
Even though we have been successful after many attempts to create the model we wanted but after saving the entire project as a QGIS file, when it is closed and opened again then the layers does not show except the polygon. For this error, we tried to redo the entire project again ( not once but several times) and saved it as a QGIS project so that it shows all layers when opened newly, but anyhow it does not work. Even though, every details can be seen in the screenshot but we would have been more happier, if Professor could see also the QGIS file. 

Thank you :)

